README.md, before:

Basic Rust CLI tool to convert LPCM WAV files to C arrays.

Only PCM data is dumped to array; no header information is included. Intended use is for I2S audio playback on embedded systems.

# Usage

See the help message for usage information:

```bash
cargo run --release -- --help
```

The source file generated is designed to be included in target sources then declarations declared as externs in the target code.

For example, an audio file `audio.wav` (16-bit) with `wav2c -o audio.c audio.wav` will generate `audio.c` with the following definitions (use `--array-name` to change the array name). These can be included in the target source as `extern`:

```c
const size_t AUDIO_SAMPLE_NO = N;
const int16_t audio[N] = { 0, ..N };
```

```c
extern const size_t AUDIO_SAMPLE_NO;
extern const int16_t audio[];
```

Alternatively, a header file containing the declarations can be generated with `--header`.

# Input File and Array Size

The input file must be integer LPCM WAV format. Bit rates up to 32-bit are supported and any sample rate. Bare in mind that the array size will be very large for high bit rates/sample rates. The `--max-samples` option is used to sanity check the array size that will be generated.

Use an audio program to convert audio files to LPCM WAV format and/or downsample for size constraints. For example, using `ffmpeg`:

```bash
# Convert M4A to mono 16-bit 22.05 kHz WAV
ffmpeg -i input.m4a -ar 22050 -ac 1 -sample_fmt s16 output.wav
# Convert M4A to mono 8-bit 8.82 kHz WAV
ffmpeg -i input.m4a -ar 8820 -ac 1 -acodec pcm_u8 output.wav
```

## Other Notes

* The environment variables `WAV2C_I8_TYPE`, `WAV2C_I16_TYPE`, `WAV2C_I32_TYPE` and `WAV2C_SIZE_TYPE` can be used to change integer types used in the generated C array. Default requires "stdint.h" and "stddef.h" to be included.

# Develop

There are integration tests that operate on generated WAV files in the `tests` directory. The tests also compile with `gcc` to ensure the generated C code is valid - this requires `gcc` to be installed.

The 'golden sample' references can be updated with the './make_golden.sh' script. Of course this should only be done with intent otherwise it is the tail wagging the dog...

Commit message:

makefile for fixtures and golden samples
Can be generated on demand in integration tests so not included in
package. Decided since file sizes so small it's better to keep them in
version control for the sake of ensuring repeatable tests.

README.md, after:

Basic Rust CLI tool to convert LPCM WAV files to C arrays.

Only PCM data is dumped to array; no header information is included. Intended use is for I2S audio playback on embedded systems.

# Usage

See the help message for usage information:

```bash
cargo run --release -- --help
```

The source file generated is designed to be included in target sources then declarations declared as externs in the target code.

For example, an audio file `audio.wav` (16-bit) with `wav2c -o audio.c audio.wav` will generate `audio.c` with the following definitions (use `--array-name` to change the array name). These can be included in the target source as `extern`:

```c
const size_t AUDIO_SAMPLE_NO = N;
const int16_t audio[N] = { 0, ..N };
```

```c
extern const size_t AUDIO_SAMPLE_NO;
extern const int16_t audio[];
```

Alternatively, a header file containing the declarations can be generated with `--header`.

# Input File and Array Size

The input file must be integer LPCM WAV format. Bit rates up to 32-bit are supported and any sample rate. Bare in mind that the array size will be very large for high bit rates/sample rates. The `--max-samples` option is used to sanity check the array size that will be generated.

Use an audio program to convert audio files to LPCM WAV format and/or downsample for size constraints. For example, using `ffmpeg`:

```bash
# Convert M4A to mono 16-bit 22.05 kHz WAV
ffmpeg -i input.m4a -ar 22050 -ac 1 -sample_fmt s16 output.wav
# Convert M4A to mono 8-bit 8.82 kHz WAV
ffmpeg -i input.m4a -ar 8820 -ac 1 -acodec pcm_u8 output.wav
```

## Other Notes

* The environment variables `WAV2C_I8_TYPE`, `WAV2C_I16_TYPE`, `WAV2C_I32_TYPE` and `WAV2C_SIZE_TYPE` can be used to change integer types used in the generated C array. Default requires "stdint.h" and "stddef.h" to be included.

# Develop

There are integration tests that operate on generated WAV files in the `tests` directory. A `cargo run --bin gen_wav` target is used to generate WAV files for testing. See the 'Makefile' targets. The files are made on demand if not existing. `make clean && make` will regenerate all required test files.

Tests also compile the output with `gcc` to ensure the generated C code is valid - this requires `gcc` to be installed.

The 'golden sample' references can be updated with the `make golden` target. Of course this should only be done with intent otherwise it is the tail wagging the dog...
